# 2022-09-26
- Today's objective was to bring the chair to the Eagle Flight Reasearch Center (EFRC) to power it and try to get the chair to spin. This is a continutation of our objective from Friday where we were unable to transport the chair due to unexpected logistical issues. Unfortunately, we were unable to meet our goal due to multiple issues.
- That said, a silver lining to take from the day is that we were able to transport the chair and acquire the power cables needed to power the chair. Thanks to Mattaheus bringing hardware to move the chair, we were able to pick up from where we left off and actually move the chair. Getting it to EFRC was somewhat challenging but we managed. 

*It's all downhill from here....*
- So after loading the chair onto Professor French's car we made our way to the EFRC. Something that should have been very simply ended up being a waste of at least 30 minutes. To make a long story short, we ended up going to the old EFRC center, not the new one located behind the Micaplex. I'm almost certain that someone else owns the hanger now but I started getting the feeling something was wrong when no one was there and it looked more like a storage for plane parts then an actual hangar. Not to mention, the place was covered in cobwebs which made my decision making easier. After a quick google searches, I picked up on the fact that the building was no longer used and we were in the wrong place. Simple fix though, we just had to head 5 minutes up the street to the correct building. 

- After ariving at the *actual* EFRC we encountered anonther issue. Our operating procedure for the day involved some high voltage loads (> 50v). I asked Roy about the specifics behind this and it ultimately culminates down to supervision. Unfortunately, without a proctor we could not test the chair as intended. We need either Dr.Liu or Dr.Haghbin to be present when we actually test the chair, preferably both. The issues compounded more as Dr.French had a prior commitment that he had to attend to. We decided to leave the chair at the EFRC and well resume activites after the university passed makes a decision for the pending hurricane/storm. I will be evacuating either way Tuesday morning so I would be unable to help if any more testing occurs this week. That said, I do not need to be present for this aspect of the project. 