# 2023-02-8
- Live data stream
- Getting chair tachometer feedback
	- Only need to know when its zero
- Setting Up Bluetooth communication
- Need to log events from data stream
- Have to separate files
	- One for events
	- One data
- SharePoint site
- Better buttons for controller
- Sharepoint site

During today's meeting we discussed a few of the upcoming design changes that we need to incorporate. Most importantly is getting feedback from the tachometer (or equivalent source) to know when the chair hits zero. Dr. French has not expressed concern over the varying speeds of the chair based on the weight of the person sitting in the chair. However, he has made it clear that we do need to know the exact time when the chair stops. We also sourced better buttons for the controller since the ones we have currently are terrible. 

To make the actual logging of data easier and not change too much of our current implementation, I opted for the approach of two separate files. A data file for logging the timestamps and the direction the patient thinks they are spinning and then a separate text file for logging events or information about the current trial. I've used this approach for my other project and it has worked well so far. 

Lastly, I convyed to Dr. French an idea to make a share point site. When we graduate the chair is still going to be used in his laboratory and possibly be taken up by another team of developers/engineers. Having a sharepoint site would be a give the project a single location for all its documentation that is accessible by everyone assuming they are ERAU faculty, students, or associates. 