# 2023-02-23

System critical failure,
Neither software or hardware works
Likely due to use modifying hardware the previous day
Problem because we are on the verge of integrating the new MCU
Stayed all night and soldered
Placed all components on solderable breadboard
Made a daughter board for the buttons to relieve some tension in the wires 
Also made the system compatible with the new Adafruit boards so that when we go to use the new boards, its a simple hardware swap
Debugged code at 15,000 ft :)

- During the trial today, we experienced a complete system failure. Nothing worked as expected and it was not safe to put anyone in the chair. If we set the speed to 12 it would spin slowly but any higher and it would go too fast which was not good. I also became apart of the study in a sense. I tried debugging the issue while the chamber was up to altitude which was set to 15,000ft. I definitely felt the change in pressure but I think I held it together pretty well. I can say I work well in low pressure literally. 
- Overall our system was completely broken so I took it upon myself to fix the issue after retrieving the module. The problem with this though is that, we are expecting to integrate the new boards so I couldn't just design a fix for our current microcontroller (Arudino Mega). That would just lead to more work down the line. I took inspiration from Dr. Liu's game controller PCB from CEC 320 that he recently developed but tweaked the intent of the design. I used a solderable breadboard along with female pin headers to make a mount for the new Adafruit boards. In addition to that I developed my own pin mapping scheme such that the pins of the Arduino Mega would be mapped to the corresponding Adafruit feather pins. This makes it such that when it comes time to upgrade to the new board, we only need to swap the board on the inside, not design a whole new system. 
- I also added a daughter board for the buttons to sit on so that the there would be less tension on the wires and that it would be easier to access the internals without breaking anything.
- The only downside to this approach was that it took all night to do. I was definitely here late but I felt it was necessary. The deadline to integrate the new features is next Tuesday but if the module isn't working by the next day so that there is time to test, then it severely compromises our makes Monday/Tuesday plans. It could also lead to the possibility of not being able to test which I am not willing to accept. 