The Bluetooth integration has gone smoothly. Thanks to Mattheus, it has been a really easy transition and the results are already showing. Our sample rate has increase significantly and we are no longer losing packets. Connecting the modules is also faster now. 

As far as changes to make, I began to improve the data logging script. Namely the data sanitation. When switching to the new board, I didn't think that the random characters that appear when reading an access amount of bytes would change. However, that is exactly what happened so I updated our data logging script to have more robust sanitation of data. 

Likewise, I made it so where detecting the Adafruit board is no longer dependent on the most recently connect COM port. This also proved to be the culprit for the previous issue for running the application on the regular laptops. To further elaborate, the data logging script would work completely fine on my laptop **without a board plugged in.** When I went to use it on one of Dr.French's laptops, it would just throw an exception and crash with no board plugged in.  I ended realizing that my laptop has a serial device built in which will have a COM port utilized. However, the other laptops don't. Pyserial will thrown an exception if it detects no open COM ports which is what was happening. My solution was to change how the board is detected. It does not change the requirement that a board must be plugged in before starting the application but instead of looking for the most recent COM port, I changed it to look for the correct USB id. This approach removes the uncertainty and guess work in looking for the device. Additionally each of our MCUs will have the exact same MCU so in case we need to replace a board in the future, we won't have to worry about updating the script to connect with the new board. 