Over the weekend, I took a crack at this with the document Dr. Liu sent me. I got about two thirds of the way through before my lack of matrix operations slowed down progress. The last step in the least squares approach invovled some matrix math and I didn't have the time or capacity to relearn some of the concepts. However, I did consider applying a linear regression formula to try and map when the rate of change is approximately zero. 

Today, we met in the lab and just recorded the tachometer values from the chair. Dr. Liu figured that instead of calculating it during runtime, we could do after we gather all the data. I like this approach and it gives us the ability to utilize the python math functions instead of hoping that the controller can detect the stop. On another note, I really wish our tachometer measured rate of change instead of positional values. That would make this whole process so much easier. I showed the data to Dr. Liu and Aaron later and we quickly came to the conclusion that not only is the data generated bad but the tachometer itself might be damaged. The data we got was unexpectedly noisy and for some trials, the graph flattened out at two places at the same time **which is not possible.** It also does not help that our MCU has a weird reference voltage of 3.6v instead of 3.3v. I noticed this when running a small test with a potentiometer off the 3.3v line. I would never reach the max value of the resolution. A few google searches later and I found that the culprit was the reference voltage level being 3.6v. To compensate, I tried making a voltage divider circuit off the 5v line from the USB power but did not have the exact resistors values needed. I was able to get down to about 3.67v which causes a weird roll off when approaching the max value. I wish we found these issues last month but again it is what it is. I'm thankful for Dr. Liu's quick response and assistance but I'm sorry that we let it get to this point and that we will not be able to integrate the tachometer feature. Back to the drawing board. 