We met as a group today just to work on our finishing tasks. I helped Dylan with integrating the web interface which is going smoothly, gave Noah some assistance with tidying up the PCB, and helped Kent with the final presentation and documentation. 

Regarding the tachometer issue, we are looking into a alternate of using a Bluetooth IMU with a gyroscope. Finding a replacement tachometer would be difficult and not guaranteed to work. We also considered the possibility of putting an IMU in the remote but that has some drawbacks such as mounting and processing the data from the remote, to the control box, and then to the host PC. However, Dr. French has a Bluetooth IMU which has a Python API for interfacing with a PC running windows or Linux. We are looking into using this option and having the IMU directly connect and stream the chair's angular velocity data to the PC. If my understanding is correct, all we would need to  do is find the point in time where the angular velocity reaches approximately 0. 

## Update:
After fighting with the API for 24 hours, I finally got the example to compile under Linux. I still need to try in windows but I think I can recreate the process. Even more importantly, I was able to run the example and connect to the board which is huge. I haven't tried extracting any data and the program did crash a few seconds after connecting. I'm still considering this a win because I wasn't even certain that we would be able to do this. The next step is seeing if I can get the gyroscope data from the IMU and then we only need to process the data!